She's still in that uniform.
still wearing that badge.
It's not hard for her to get in a door.
Everyone. please go back inside.
Thank you.
Yeah. it's all right. Everything's okay.
Paul.
How'd she get away?
You think I let her go?
- Why would he let her go?
- I don't know.
- I sent him home for the time being.
- Where the fuck is she?
Amundsen and his team searched the level.
every apartment. every closet.
under every bed...
What. has she mastered
the art of invisibility?
'Cause that's a skill
I'd really love to learn.
It's possible she circled around
or climbed up or down
the far side of the shaft.
- Have you searched that level?
- We did.
I also brought in all off-duty watchers.
We have eyes on every screen.
Have them track her movement yesterday.
Maybe that'll tell us something.
I think we have to assume
she somehow got off that level.
maybe made it back to the stairs.
I'm gonna have Amundsen talk to anyone
who might give her shelter.
Rob. I hope you understand
what we're facing here.
Go.
Talk to her friends. family.
See if anyone's hiding her.
I'm gonna need an escort.
Paul.
Honey.
I lost my grip.
- It's not your fault.
- No.
It is my fault.
You ask me if I'm okay. I feel fine.
Physically. I feel normal.
but look at this.
Even now. my hands won't stop.
All these medicines and herbs...
At this point. I'd rather people just know
I have the Syndrome
than think I'm incompetent.
You're not incompetent.
You worked hard to get where you are.
But maybe it's time.
- For what?
- To go back to Judicial.
They liked you there.
You did well and it didn't have
the same kinds of requirements.
I'm not going back to Judicial.
Your plan is to tell them
you have the Syndrome
and hope they look past it.
ignore the Pact?
I wasn't being serious. Kat.
I was just saying how I feel.
You lied. Paul.
Yes. you earned the job that you have.
but by not telling them
about your condition.
So if going back to Judicial
is what allows you
- to move forward...
- I am more than qualified to do this job.
I am not saying that you're not!
But one sheriff was already sent out
to clean and the other was on their way.
and neither of them had children!
So when you think of your secrets
and your pride
about what you're qualified to do.
picture your daughter
growing up without you.
Think about that.
Kat. that's not fair.
It's the truth.
When I was 17. there was another kid.
Justin Carlson. who had the Syndrome.
Most kids didn't know. but I knew.
I saw him trying to hide it
the same way I did.
And he knew I had it too.
One day. he approached me
and asked me about it
like he was trying to make a friend.
I hit him so hard.
I knocked one of his teeth out.
I told him if he ever told anyone.
or if he ever talked to me again.
I'd hit him harder.
That's how important it was
for me to keep that secret.
to keep people from knowing
that I had some defect.
that I was someone the Pact said
could only have a job
with no physical requirement
because I was different.
I am not limited by what others think
- I'm capable of…
- Paul. honey.
…and I'm allowed to make mistakes.
I'm allowed to make mistakes.
What are you doing?
I'm gonna catch the person I let go.
I'm gonna make this right.
- Hank.
- Walker.
This about Jules?
I tried to tell 'em
Mechanical runs like a fine-oiled machine
'cause of the hardworking citizens who
put the safety of the Silo above all else.
Yet. here they are.
Yeah.
Well. come on in.
I ain't got shit to hide.
She didn't wake up
for her 5:00 a.m. feeding.
I'm so tired.
I didn't wake up until 6:00 and I...
Denise. it's okay.
- I'm a terrible mother.
- No. No. you're not.
You're just exhausted.
Look. Claudia's just fine.
- What are you doing?
- Peter Nichols.
- We're in the middle of a...
- Do you know where your daughter is?
- You'll wake the baby.
No. Now please leave.
I think you better do as he says.
If you wake the baby.
this poor woman might just kill you.
I remember when getting our boy to sleep
was the highest achievement of the day.
What do you want with my daughter?
Dr. Nichols.
I imagine Juliette is the most
important person in the world to you.
but for the sake of everyone in the Silo.
I need you to tell me where she might be.
She is the most important person to me.
but I don't know how she thinks
or where she might go.
Until this week. I hadn't seen her
in 20 years.
- What happened?
- She said she wanted to go out.
Now the whole Silo is looking for her.
Help me find her
before some overeager raider does.
If that's meant to be a warning.
I don't need it. I know all about them.
I guess you do.
There's a spot
halfway around the level one balcony
where the railing is worn smooth
by all the people who have
gripped it tight before going over.
I never imagined
my wife would be one of them.
But thanks to your raiders.
Jules is all I have left.
Let me ask you. Mr. Sims.
if you were in my position.
would you help
the people hunting your child?
I would.
'cause no one person is more important
than the 10.000 or the thousands to come.
I have no idea where she is.
Why did they close school?
It's just a special day. honey.
I don't have to go to work either.
It'll just be you and me.
Grilled cheese for lunch.
Is Daddy coming home?
Daddy is gonna be very busy today.
I made something for him.
That's lovely.
Just gonna make one for your dad
and not your mom?
I made one for you too. Mom.
- Mrs. Sims?
- Yes?
Your husband sent us
to escort you both home from school.
Well. you're a little late.
- Our door is right here.
- Apologies. ma'am.
Could we at least
make sure you get in okay?
All right.
Okay. We're in.
- You mind if we check inside?
- You're not setting foot inside my home.
But you can tell my husband
you did your job.
- Ma'am.
- I was a raider for 12 years
before I moved over to IT.
I can take care of myself.
Yes. ma'am. but we'd really feel better...
You two drew a lot of attention
running up. yelling my name.
You think my husband would like that?
Okay. Come on.
There we go.
Everything okay. Mommy?
Yeah.
Yeah. baby. Everything's fine.
You just stay in here
and get your homework out.
I'll make you a snack. okay?
- Yeah.
- Excuse me?
- Yes. Mommy.
- Okay.
I'm not gonna hurt you
but I will if I have to.
I love it. baby.
Why don't you hang on to it for me. okay?
Yes. ma'am.
I'm gonna close the door.
but everything's all right.
I just need to talk to
this person from work.
Yes. ma'am.
- You know how to use that?
- No. not really.
I figured you're so close.
it doesn't really matter.
There's only one shot in there.
How many will I need?
Look. I'm not here to hurt you.
- You said that.
- I'm saying it again.
- Are these mine?
- Yeah. Your husband took mine.
Cuff yourself to the rail in the bathroom.
No.
Look. Me firing this gun.
whether I hit you or not.
it's gonna be enough to give your son
nightmares for the rest of his life.
You want that?
I'm not going any place where I can't see
both you and the door to my son's bedroom.
Kitchen. Now.
Really?
I've done more with less.
By the sound of it. so have you.
What are you doing?
Deputy. you can't come in here.
The judge said only Judicial investigators
are allowed inside.
As acting sheriff. I have a responsibility
to conduct an investigation
into anyone who requests to go outside.
And I have orders to arrest anyone
who tries to get past me.
Sir. I don't know if you remember me.
but I took your class on the Pact
last year.
- Jean?
- Robinson.
Look. if it was up to me.
I'd let you inside. but I can't.
As you know. I don't have a choice.
I have to do what they say.
- Can you tell me if she left a note?
- No note. This place was a mess.
I was just thinking if I found out
why she said she had to go out.
maybe I could figure out where she is.
I don't know.
But you should go. sir.
So. who was it that gave you nightmares?
That's not something you say
if you don't have them yourself.
You said you were a raider.
You know. when I was a little girl
about the same age your son is now.
someone like you broke down our door.
They destroyed our apartment. my family.
That's Judicial. That's who you used to
work for and who your husband works for.
My husband works for the good of the Silo.
- You believe in the good of the Silo?
- I do.
But not enough to let two raiders
into your apartment where your son sleeps.
Even though your husband sent them.
My husband's not in control of
everything that happens in the Silo.
And he's certainly not responsible
for something that happened to you
when you were a child.
You have no idea
what your husband is responsible for.
And what do you think will happen
when he finds out where you are right now?
Come in.
I spoke to her father. Our Down Deep team
checked out her friends in Mechanical.
None of them have her.
Did you send teams anywhere else?
Just those places for now.
The watchers tracked
where Nichols went yesterday.
Most of it normal
until she went to the Dispatch on ten.
Hired a porter to deliver a message.
The sheriff's department
has its own porters.
Yeah. I know.
I sent an agent up to check it out.
The message was delivered
to someone in the cafeteria.
Cafeteria worker?
No. someone who was just sitting there.
Lukas Kyle. works in IT.
We don't know what the message said.
but we do know what Mr. Kyle did
after he got it.
He went to Nichols's apartment.
Would you consider yourself
a curious person. Mr. Kyle?
No...
I mean. not more than anyone else is. sir.
But I understand that you like to
go up to the cafeteria at night
and chart the lights in the sky.
Is that true?
It's just a hobby to pass the time.
I would say that
I am more analytical than curious.
Analytical?
It's why I like working here in IT.
You know. here I get to use...
Do you have any idea what they are?
The lights.
No. sir.
Any guesses?
What about Sheriff Nichols?
Does she have any idea
what the lights are?
Lukas. yesterday when the sheriff
sent you a message by porter.
you went directly to her apartment
where you had a conversation.
It was hard to hear
over the water that she left running.
Nichols then broke her mirror.
destroying the air quality monitor
behind it.
A criminal offense.
And then on top of that.
she showed you a hard drive.
A restricted one.
And what did you do?
I... Well. nothing. I didn't do anything.
Exactly.
The sheriff showed you
a restricted red-level relic.
and you told no one.
A Judicial security team
even came to her apartment.
giving you the opportunity to alert them.
and you slinked away.
I didn't know
that it was a red-level relic. sir. I...
Tell me. you're an analytical person.
So. what do you think the consequences
should be for such an inaction?
Sir. the consequences?
Come on. You're a smart man.
Otherwise. you wouldn't be in IT.
I mean. before today.
while I wouldn't have known your face.
I am certainly familiar
with your performance numbers.
and they are quite high.
So. consequences.
How about the scavenge room?
The mines?
Considering the scope of your betrayal.
maybe a cleaning would be
more appropriate.
Mr. Holland. please. I...
With 10.000 of your fellow citizens
depending on your judgment.
you turned a blind eye.
Why?
Because of a… crush?
I'm not sure
I see another way out for you…
unless you help us find her.
I have no idea where she is.
What did she want from you?
Just help with the hard drive.
but I didn't help her.
Describe it to me.
The hard drive. describe it to me.
- It's old...
- What else?
It's beat-up. It...
Was there a serial number?
- I didn't look at it that closely.
- Bullshit!
You're lying to me. What else?
There was a number on it.
Not a serial number. just a n...
Yes. What number?
A number. 18.
Put him somewhere.
Don't let him talk to anyone.
- What is it?
- Come with me.
I need a system-wide scan
for a hard drive.
Serial number 18.
Sir. serial numbers have nine digits.
This has two. a one followed by an eight.
otherwise known as 18. Find it!
You okay?
I've been very negligent
in appointing a shadow.
And I know you think
it should be you. Robert.
but earlier today. you had Amundsen
send agents
to accompany your wife when she
walked your son home from school.
We are facing extinction.
and you chose
to protect your family before the Silo.
I suppose that
is completely understandable.
But now I wonder
whether making you my shadow
would be fair to you. your wife.
your son. or the Silo.
Got it.
That drive is connected to a computer
in an apartment on level 17.
- Seventeen?
- Yes. sir. Apartment 114.
Gotta be fucking kidding me.
Clear the stairs all the way to level 17!
Get every available raider.
levels above and below.
With me. Come with me!
- Hey. Jules.
- What?
Pretty crazy. right? This is a video.
Or at least that's what they called it
in the before-times.
I'm making it
on an old camera that I found.
It was on its last legs. but
I got it working. because I'm a genius.
Hopefully. you're watching this
and I'm right next to you.
watching your reaction. But if not.
and you're watching without me...
Well. first off. that means you found
all the clues I left behind.
But if you're watching it alone.
that also means
that Judicial found out
that I have the hard drive.
and things haven't gone the way I wanted.
Please know that I never meant
to put you in any danger.
But. Jules. there is stuff on this drive
that people need to see.
The truth.
Stop.
You should also know that I…
The second you connected that drive.
they knew where you were.
You can either run right now.
or keep watching and die.
- Let's go.
- Come on!
Shit. Oh. shit.
All the alleyway cameras
are going dark too.
Wait.
Hey. you all right? Are you okay?
Anthony. are you okay?
How does she keep getting away?
Next.
- Travel restrictions remain in effect.
- Yeah. I'm IT.
How is IT travel essential today?
Well. it isn't to me.
but it is to my boss.
Thank you.
- Hey.
- This better be important. Patrick.
I had to lie my way past a bunch
of fucking checkpoints.
You think I'm gonna spend ten credits
on a message if it wasn't important?
No. Get in.
Come on.
I promised my asshole boss
I'd work weekends for m...
Patrick. why is the sheriff here?
- I'm pretty sure she's the ex-sheriff now.
- Better question. why am I here?
'Cause you're a part of a ring
that hacks the Silo's security network
and fences stolen goods
from the marketplace.
- You traitorous fuck!
- Hey. I said you were the best.
- Why are you helping a cop?
- I saved his life.
She likes to think that that's why.
but really. I'm doing it for that watch.
I've got a job for you.
- You got another watch for me?
- No.
- Well. then I'm not interested.
- Yeah. you are.
- Oh. shit. George Wilkins.
- Yeah.
There's a file I need
to finish looking at.
- Why do you need me for that?
- Needs a computer with SysOp clearance.
- and they wouldn't give one to a criminal…
- Wow.
Not easy. but I can get around it.
And they're looking for that drive.
so as soon as you plug it in.
they'll come running.
- That's a little harder but doable.
- There.
I can make 'em think it's coming
from somewhere else in the Silo.
Anywhere you want
to send a team of raiders?
Old boyfriend? Boss?
How about that asshole on 98?
One who turned you in on the counterfeit?
Done.
I spent years trying to crack this drive
before I sold it to Regina.
It was just collecting dust
by the time she offered me a trade.
Then she gave it to George.
Holston's wife did these?
Yeah.
Data recovery.
No wonder she went out to clean.
She got around the directory problem.
George couldn't crack it.
Wow. There's. like.
thousands and thousands of files here.
How am I supposed to know where to start?
How about there?
Yeah. that's actually very helpful.
Hey. Jules. Pretty crazy. right?
This is a video.
What the actual fuck?
Got it. It's on 98.
She was on 17.
How the fuck did she get to 98?
The truth. Since I'm being honest.
you should also know
that I transferred to Mechanical
so that I could find someone
to use as a guide down here.
And it didn't take long for me to realize
that the know-it-all down here is you.
My plan was to get all
the knowledge you could provide.
and then leave you behind.
But then the most annoying thing happened.
I fell in love with you.
Anyway…
I wanted to tell you today
at Cooper's shadow party that I found
the door I've been looking for.
It's huge. Maybe 15 feet high. Metal.
I can't get through it. Maybe you can.
I'm guessing you're wondering
what I did about the water.
Well. turns out
it was nothing to worry about.
Anyway. Jules. the important thing
is the door is down there.
You have to find it.
I...
I'm recording this video
in case I don't make it.
but people need to know
why Allison Becker went out to clean.
Remember what she said
when she asked to go out?
On here. look for the file labeled
"Jane Carmody Cleaning."
You'll see why.
I wish I had gotten here sooner.
It's a good thing you didn't.
I let her go. Rob.
You what? Why would you do that?
- Just listen.
- To what?
You had her right here and you let her go?
I knew you were coming with a bunch
of raiders with their fingers on triggers.
- No. I gave them orders not to fire.
- I've been given those orders.
I know what can happen.
We have one goal. one ambition.
and we will not lose sight of that.
- What?
- Bernard. he...
he found out I had an escort
bringing you and Anthony home.
and now he's wondering
if I'm the wrong person to shadow him.
Tell me exactly what he said. Rob.
I can't get into that now.
I have to get back.
Dad.
Anthony. honey.
I told you to stay in your room.
Everything is okay now. Son. Promise.
Daddy's not gonna let anything
happen to you.
You want your father
to protect us. don't you?
So do I.
We have to let him go so he can do that.
Are you gonna send that lady out to clean?
- We'll see.
- I hope you do.
I don't ever want her to ever come back.
I gotta go hide this drive
and then head back up.
One more thing before I go.
I'm so happy that I got
to be the lucky bastard
in this fucked-up place who got
to be with you.
So in case I wasn't clear enough earlier.
I love you. Juliette Nichols.
I love you.
- Hey. how's Camille? How's your boy?
- Scared. both of them.
I heard the drive popped up down on 98.
It's not there.
She has someone bouncing the address.
They're good. but I'm better.
We will find it. and we will get her.
Oh. my...
- It's so... I...
- Guys. you gotta see this.
It's so beautiful. It's so beautiful.
Can anyone hear me? Can anyone hear me?
The display in the cafeteria...
People have to know. They have to see.
Allison was right.
The display is a lie.